[doc] Add project migration doc for single api version operator (#2791)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: website/content/en/docs/kubebuilder-migration/project_migration_guide.md

# Overview - Single API version operator

This guide walks through the steps required to migrate an operator from an Operator SDK project layout to a Kubebuilder project layout.

The document considers [memcached operator][memcached-operator] as an example to describe the process of migrating an operator built using Operator SDK to a runnable Kubebuilder project.

## Prerequisites
- [git][git_tool].
- [go][go_tool] version 17.03+.
- [kubectl][kubectl_tool] version v1.11.3+.
- [kustomize][kustomize_tool] v3.1.0+.
- Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster.

## Create a new project

Use `operator-sdk init` command to create a new project:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Example**
```

Reviewer: IHMO we are here explaining how to change a project to the new layout so we need to make clear that the Memcached steps are examples.

```sh
$ mkdir $HOME/projects/memcached-operator
$ cd $HOME/projects/memcached-operator

> $ operator-sdk init --domain example.com --license apache2 --owner "The Memcached Operator authors" --repo github.com/example-inc/memcached-operator

Reviewer: why add licns, owner and repo here?

# Overview - Single API version operator

This guide walks through the steps required to migrate an operator from an Operator SDK project layout to a Kubebuilder project layout.

The document considers [memcached operator][memcached-operator] as an example to describe the process of migrating an operator built using Operator SDK to a runnable Kubebuilder project.

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: is not it specific for go projects only, why it is in the main menu? should not it be in the golang section ?

Reviewer 2: @camilamacedo86 This guide should only be for migrating Go operators. Ansible/Helm might have their own depending on what we actually change for those types.
 
So for now the location doesn't matter as long as this doc isn't shown on the website. We can put this doc in `website/content/en/docs/golang/kubebuilder-migration` but I think we still don't want to expose this on the website just yet while the other integration work is not yet complete.

Reviewer: hI @hasbro17, 

This is the point. It is now in  `website/content/en/docs/kubebuilder-migration/project_migration_guide.md ` when I think that it should be in the golang dir.

Reviewer 2: @camilamacedo86 These docs shouldn't be visible no matter where we place them. And we're already adding the new docs for Kubeubilder CLI at `website/content/en/docs/kubebuilder`:
https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/tree/master/website/content/en/docs/kubebuilder 

To avoid mixing these docs before the integration is complete I want to keep it separate from `website/content/en/docs/golang` for now. 
Once the integration is finished with all the docs and we're ready to make them visible on the website we can move them to that location.
Same for ansible/helm docs whenever we add those in.

@varshaprasad96 Can you please move this doc to `website/content/en/docs/kubebuilder/migration/project_migration_guide.md`.

I'll move `website/content/en/docs/kubebuilder` to `website/content/en/docs/golang/kubebuilder` in a follow up PR.

- [git][git_tool].
- [go][go_tool] version 17.03+.
- [kubectl][kubectl_tool] version v1.11.3+.
- [kustomize][kustomize_tool] v3.1.0+.
- Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster.

> 

Reviewer: Should we not ask for the user to ensure that their project is upgraded to the latest version of SDK first?

$ cd memcached-operator
```

Make sure to activate the go module support by running `$ export GO111MODULE=on`.

## Create an API

Create a new API and a new kind (CRD) for the operator.

In case of memcached operator, a new API named `cache/v1aplha1` (group/version) and a new kind `Memcached` is created using the following command.

`operator-sdk api --group cache --version v1alpha1 --kind Memcached`

Press `y` when asked for creating resource and controller. This will scaffold the project and create the files `api/<version>/<kind>_types.go` and `controller/<kind>_types.go`.

For memcached operator project, `api/v1alpha1/memcached_types.go` and `controller/memcached_controller.go` are generated.

```sh
Create Resource [y/n]
y
Create Controller [y/n]
y
Writing scaffold for you to edit...
api/v1alpha1/memcached_types.go
controllers/memcached_controller.go
Running make:
$ make
go: creating new go.mod: module tmp
go: finding sigs.k8s.io v0.2.5
go: finding sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd v0.2.5
go: finding sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd/controller-gen v0.2.5
/Users/admin/go/bin/controller-gen object:headerFile="hack/boilerplate.go.txt" paths="./..."
go fmt ./...

> go vet ./...

Reviewer: I think it is not required. 
I mean, why we need to add this output? What info/problem will be solved with? Is not better we try to be less verbose here to make the things simple?

Particularly, note the following changes:

1. The naming convention of the reconciler struct may differ. For example, in case of memcached operator the reconciler struct in SDK project is mentioned as [`ReconcileMemcached`][sdk_reconcile_struct] whereas in Kubebuilder project it would be `MemcachedReconciler`.

```go
type MemcachedReconciler struct {
	Log    logr.Logger
	Client client.Client
	Scheme *runtime.Scheme
}
```

2. Update the import aliases in the `Reconcile()` function and copy over any remaining helper functions from `pkg/controller/<kind>/<kind>_controller.go` to `api/<version>/<kind>_controller.go`.

Refer to [`memcached_controller.go`][kb_memcached_controller] for the example implementation of `Reconcile()` logic which would be present in `api/v1alpha1/memcached_controller.go` of Memcached operator.

## Generate CRDs

Run [`make manifests`][generate_crd] to generate CRD manifests. They would be generated inside the `config/crd/bases` folder.

```sh
$ make manifests
go: creating new go.mod: module tmp
go: finding sigs.k8s.io v0.2.5
go: finding sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd v0.2.5
go: finding sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd/controller-gen v0.2.5

> /Users/admin/go/bin/controller-gen "crd:trivialVersions=true" rbac:roleName=manager-role webhook paths="./..." output:crd:artifacts:config=config/crd/bases

Reviewer: IHMO: I do not think that the output is valuable helpful here and can get outdated very easily. So, I do not think that we should add them.

> **// TODO:** Explain label propagation for metrics collection.

### RBAC permissions

The RBAC manifests present in `config/rbac/` of a Kubebuilder project are generated through the [RBAC markers][rbac_markers] present in `controller/<kind>_controller.go`. They can be added as comments above the `Reconcile()` method.

In our example of memcached operator, add the following rbac markers in `memcached_controller.go`:

```Go

...
// +kubebuilder:rbac:groups=apps,resources=deployments;pods;daemonsets;replicasets;statefulsets,verbs=get;update;patch;list;create;delete;watch

func (r *MemcachedReconciler) Reconcile(req ctrl.Request) (ctrl.Result, error) {
	_ = context.Background()
	reqLogger := log.WithValues("Request.Namespace", req.Namespace, "Request.Name", req.Name)
	reqLogger.Info("Reconciling Memcached")

...
```
**Note**:
To update `config/rbac/role.yaml` after changing the markers, run `make manifests`.

The project can now be built and the operator can be deployed on cluster. For further steps regarding the deployment of operator, creation of custom resource and cleaning up of resources, refer to [quickstart guide][kb_quickstart].

> 

Reviewer: Is not missing how to move the main.go impl and add the sdk as dep to allow users still using the features provided by it? Are not the users using the metrics and or adding new schemas for example?

Author: The operator scope doc is still in progress I think: https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/master/website/content/en/docs/kubebuilder/quickstart.md#operator-scope
Will direct the users there once done.

Reviewer: Regards the scope:

SDK does not work as Kubebuilder. By default, all projects scaffolded by Kubebuilder will be cluster escaped and not namespaced scoped as it is in SDK. So, IMO we need to clarify that and described what are the steps to keep the project with namespaced scope. 

 Regards the sdk dep:

SDK provides features which users can have been using in their projects so IMO we need to clarify how to keep this feature as well. E.g test-framework, k8sutils and etc.

Reviewer: Hi @hasbro17 and @joelanford, 

Wdyt? Is it something that we could skip in the first moment?

Reviewer 2: @camilamacedo86 I think if we try to cover everything in the migration guide it will turn into a duplicate of the user-guide and advanced topics.
We just want the basic migration steps in this guide to be able to move over the apis/controllers and manifests.

And then for users who wan to enable `WATCH_NAMESPACE ` and scope their operator correctly we'll have to point them to the operator-scope doc (WIP) to make the necessary changes.

So I think we can leave that out for now.

> # Project Migration - Single API version operator

Reviewer: IHMO the title is not leading to the correct info.
WDYT about something as `Migration guide for the new layout`?

Author: Since we are not explaining anything about `Multi-Version API` (not anytime soon I think), I've specifically mentioned Single API version operator. Will modify to `Overview - Single API version operator` if that looks fine.

This guide walks through the steps required to migrate an operator from an Operator SDK project layout to a Kubebuilder project layout.

> The document considers [memcached operator][memcached-operator] as an example to describe the process of migrating an operator built using Operator SDK to a runnable Kubebuilder project.

Reviewer: Is it valid for all types? If not then, I think it should be in the Golang section.

Author: @hasbro17 Are we keeping it in a separate folder as of now, or can we move it to golang section?

Reviewer: Why we ned to add `Single API version operator`? What does it mean? 
what relation it has with migrate the layout of the projects?

Author: Since we are not explaining anything about Multi-Version API (not anytime soon I think), I've specifically mentioned Single API version operator.

Reviewer: Hun, but add on top lead to me believe that this is the main topic of the doc. 
Also, why not add a note such as follows to cover the multi-group scenario? 

**Muti-Group**

If your project as multi groups for its API's then you will need to run the command `operator-sdk edit --multigroup=true` to allow this layout. 

Notice that with the multi-group project the Kind API’s files are created under apis/<group>/<version> instead of api/<version>. Also, note that the controllers will be created under controllers/<group> instead of controllers. That is the reason why we moved the previously generated APIs with the provided scripts in the previous steps. Remember to update the references afterwards.

For further information see: https://book.kubebuilder.io/migration/multi-group.html

Author: Since we do not support Webhooks implementation (as in https://book.kubebuilder.io/multiversion-tutorial/conversion.html) do we need to add it?

Reviewer 2: @varshaprasad96 Multi-group is different from multi-version for a single API.
You can have 2 groups both with a single version each so no conversion webhooks required.

The problem for multi-groups right now is that you have to run `kubebuilder edit --multigroup=true` after adding the first group. But that command isn't available yet in the new operator-sdk CLI.
So I need to double check with @estroz if we'll have that command.

But to cover the multi-group scenario you can add the above note for enabling multi-groups if they have multiple groups, before adding any APIs. 
And instead of using the step `operator-sdk edit --multi-group=true` users will need to manually modify their PROJECT file to add the line `multigroup: true` so that the PROJECT file ends up looking like this:

```YAML
domain: example.com
layout: go.kubebuilder.io/v2.0.0
repo: github.com/hasbro17/memcached-operator
multigroup: true
version: 3-alpha
plugins:
  go.operator-sdk.io/v2.0.0: {}
```

Then if you run `create api` it will scaffold apis in `apis/<group>/<version>/` and controllers in `controllers/<group>/`.

## Prerequisites
- [git][git_tool].
- [go][go_tool] version 17.03+.
- [kubectl][kubectl_tool] version v1.11.3+.
- [kustomize][kustomize_tool] v3.1.0+.
- Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster.

## Install Kubebuilder

> Follow the installation steps provided in the [kubebuilder book][kubebuilder_install] to install kubebuilder.

Reviewer: It is not requered. Why do we need to install kubuilder?

## Create a new project

> 

Reviewer: Will we not use the @estroz tool to do the migration? So should not its steps change to work with?

Reviewer 3: The tool is still a WIP and needs some input before we can write docs for it. For now we should write docs that assume no tool exists. I’ll update relevant docs once the tool is approved.

Reviewer 2: @camilamacedo86 That tool doesn't exist yet plus I think it still needs some discussion to finalize the workflow.
So we still need this doc for steps in absence of the tool.
And once we are satisfied with the tooling we can update this doc. I expect there will still be manual steps needed even with the tool.

```go
type MemcachedReconciler struct {
	Log    logr.Logger
	Client client.Client
	Scheme *runtime.Scheme
}
```

2. Update the import aliases in `Reconcile` logic and copy over the remaining related functions from `pkg/controller/<kind>/<kind>_controller.go` to `api/<version>/<kind>_controller.go`.

Refer to [`memcached_controller.go`][kb_memcached_controller] for the example implementation of `reconcile` logic which would be present in `api/v1alpha1/memcached_controller.go` of Memcached operator.

## Generate CRDs

Run [`make manifests`][generate_crd] to generate CRD manifests. They would be generated inside the `config/` folder.

```sh
$ make manifests
go: creating new go.mod: module tmp
go: finding sigs.k8s.io v0.2.5
go: finding sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd v0.2.5
go: finding sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd/controller-gen v0.2.5
/Users/admin/go/bin/controller-gen "crd:trivialVersions=true" rbac:roleName=manager-role webhook paths="./..." output:crd:artifacts:config=config/crd/bases
```

## Operator Manifests

### Operator deployment manifests

> The operator deployment manifest [`operator.yaml`][deployment_yaml] present inside `deploy/` folder in SDK project can be copied to `config/manager/manager.yaml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The operator deployment manifest [`deploy/operator.yaml`][deployment_yaml] from the old project should be copied over to `config/manager/manager.yaml` in the new project.
```

**Note**: 

> The kustomize file requires the operator deployment manifest to have the field `namespace` which is missing in the current operator.yaml of sdk project.

Reviewer 2: This probably gets into a little more beyond the migration guide so maybe you can add a TODO here but I think when users copy over their deployment they'll want to make sure they keep their Deployment selector labels the same as the default one `control-plane: controller-manager` as in the metrics service.
https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/blob/master/testdata/project-v2/config/manager/manager.yaml#L18
https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/blob/master/testdata/project-v2/config/rbac/auth_proxy_service.yaml#L14
https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/blob/master/testdata/project-v2/config/prometheus/monitor.yaml#L16

Otherwise the service and servicemonitor won't be able to scrape the operator metrics I think.
https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/metrics.html

So this is probably a follow up we need to do, to double check that we need to preserve the default `control-plane: controller-manager` labels so that the metrics are correctly exposed.

Author: Yes, if the labels for pods and deployment is modified, then [this](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/blob/master/testdata/project-v2/config/rbac/auth_proxy_service.yaml#L14) should be modified. And if the label for [service](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/blob/master/testdata/project-v2/config/rbac/auth_proxy_service.yaml#L5) changes, it should be modified in [service monitor](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/blob/master/testdata/project-v2/config/prometheus/monitor.yaml#L16) too. Will add it as TODO as of now.

### RBAC permissions

> The RBAC manifests present in `config/rbac/` of a kubebuilder project are generated through the [RBAC markers][rbac_markers] present in `controller/<kind>_controller.go`. They can be added as comments above the `Reconcile` method.

Reviewer 2: Nit for `Reconcile()`. Also capitalize **K**ubebuilder everywhere else in the doc as well.
```suggestion
The RBAC manifests present in `config/rbac/` of a Kubebuilder project are generated through the [RBAC markers][rbac_markers] present in `controller/<kind>_controller.go`. They can be added as comments above the `Reconcile()` method.
```

In our example of memcached operator, add the following rbac markers in `memcached_controller.go`:

```Go

...

> // +kubebuilder:rbac:groups=apps,resources=deployments;pods;daemonsets;replicasets;statefulsets,verbs=get;update;patch;list;create;delete;watch
> func (r *MemcachedReconciler) Reconcile(req ctrl.Request) (ctrl.Result, error) {

Reviewer 2: You can test this out but I think if you don't leave any space between the RBAC comments and the function signature then the rbac generator won't pick up the comments and generate/update the role.
You can actually place the rbac comments anywhere but you need to leave a line in this case.
```suggestion
// +kubebuilder:rbac:groups=apps,resources=deployments;pods;daemonsets;replicasets;statefulsets,verbs=get;update;patch;list;create;delete;watch

func (r *MemcachedReconciler) Reconcile(req ctrl.Request) (ctrl.Result, error) {
```

	_ = context.Background()
	reqLogger := log.WithValues("Request.Namespace", req.Namespace, "Request.Name", req.Name)
	reqLogger.Info("Reconciling Memcached")

...
```
**Note**:
To update `config/rbac/role.yaml` after changing the markers, run `make manifests`.

> ## Build and run the operator:

Reviewer 2: @joelanford @varshaprasad96  
I'm thinking for the bild and run part of the migration guide, there's no actual migration steps involved.
Since it's just about ensuring that you can build and run your operator, can we just link to the [`Ruild and run the operator`](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/master/website/content/en/docs/kubebuilder/quickstart.md#build-and-run-the-operator) section in the user-guide guide rather than repeating what's already there.

linkTitle: Project Migration - Single API version operator
weight: 1
---

This guide walks through the steps required to migrate an operator built using Operator SDK to kubebuilder project layout.

The document considers [memcached operator][memcached-operator] as an example to describe the process of migrating an operator built using Operator SDK to a runnable Kubebuilder project.

## Prerequisites
- [git][git_tool].
- [go][go_tool] version 17.03+.
- [kubectl][kubectl_tool] version v1.11.3+.
- [kustomize][kustomize_tool] v3.1.0+.
- Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster.

## Install Kubebuilder

Follow the installation steps provided in the [kubebuilder book][kubebuilder_install] to install kubebuilder.

## Create a new project

Use [`kubebuilder init`][kubebuilder-create-project] command to create a new project:

```sh
$ mkdir $HOME/projects
$ cd $HOME/projects
$ kubebuilder init --domain example.com --license apache2 --owner "The Memcached Operator authors" --repo github.com/example-inc/memcached-operator
$ cd memcached-operator
```

Make sure to activate the go module support by running `$ export GO111MODULE=on`.

## Create an API

> Create a new API (group/version) as `cache/v1alpha1` and a new kind(CRD) `Memcached` on it.

Reviewer 2: I think we could rephrase the migration steps a little bit.
Currently the steps in this section and the next directly state what API to define and then to copy over our example spec and status. This reads more like the user-guide.

For the migration guide I think we could probably rephrase each step into two parts
```
- Do XYZ for your project.
- Here's how XYZ looks like for the memcached operator example.
```

api/v1alpha1/memcached_types.go
controllers/memcached_controller.go
Running make:
$ make
go: creating new go.mod: module tmp
go: finding sigs.k8s.io v0.2.5
go: finding sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd v0.2.5
go: finding sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd/controller-gen v0.2.5
/Users/admin/go/bin/controller-gen object:headerFile="hack/boilerplate.go.txt" paths="./..."
go fmt ./...
go vet ./...
```

### Define Spec and Status

Copy over the API spec and status from the SDK project's [`pkg/apis/cache/v1aplha1/memcached_types.go`][memcached_types] to Kubebuilder's `api/v1aplha1/memcached_types.go`.

For example the `MemcachedSpec` and `MemcachedStatus` which are to be copied are:

```go
type MemcachedSpec struct {
	// Specify size, the number of pods
	Size int32 `json:"size"`
}

type MemcachedStatus struct {
	// Nodes are the names of the memcached pods
	Nodes []string `json:"nodes"`
}
```

### CRD markers

Include any of the CRD generation or validation markers defined for your API type and fields in `api/v1alpha1/memcached_types.go`

Example:
```Go
// +kubebuilder:subresource:status
// +kubebuilder:resource:path=memcacheds,scope=Namespaced
```

### Controller logic

> Copy over the `Reconcile()` code and the controller logic from [`pkg/controller/memcached/memcached_controller.go`][memcached_controller] to the new controller's reconcile function in Kubebuilder project at `controllers/memcached_controller.go`.

Reviewer 2: So as I mentioned above about rephrasing the migration steps into 1)generic step and 2)example for memcached-operator :
```
Copy over the `Reconcile()` code and the controller logic from your existing controller at 
`pkg/controller/<kind>/<kind>_controller.go` to the new controller's reconcile function 
in Kubebuilder project at `controllers/<kind>_controller.go`.

In our example [`pkg/controller/memcached/memcached_controller.go`][memcached_controller] is copied to `controllers/memcached_controller.go`.
```

---
title: Project migration guide for single API version operator
linkTitle: Project Migration - Single API version operator
weight: 1
---

This guide walks through the steps required to migrate an operator from an Operator SDK project layout to a Kubebuilder project layout.

The document considers [memcached operator][memcached-operator] as an example to describe the process of migrating an operator built using Operator SDK to a runnable Kubebuilder project.

## Prerequisites
- [git][git_tool].
- [go][go_tool] version 17.03+.
- [kubectl][kubectl_tool] version v1.11.3+.
- [kustomize][kustomize_tool] v3.1.0+.
- Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster.

## Install Kubebuilder

Follow the installation steps provided in the [kubebuilder book][kubebuilder_install] to install kubebuilder.

## Create a new project

> Use [`kubebuilder init`][kubebuilder-create-project] command to create a new project:

Author: Updated. Will add reference documentation to the commands when it's added to `website/content/en/docs/cli` after migration.

```sh
$ mkdir $HOME/projects/memcached-operator
$ cd $HOME/projects/memcached-operator
$ kubebuilder init --domain example.com --license apache2 --owner "The Memcached Operator authors" --repo github.com/example-inc/memcached-operator
$ cd memcached-operator
```

Make sure to activate the go module support by running `$ export GO111MODULE=on`.

## Create an API

Create a new API and a new kind (CRD) for the operator.

In case of memcached operator, a new API named `cache/v1aplha1` (group/version) and a new kind `Memcached` is created using the following command.

> `kubebuilder create api --group cache --version v1alpha1 --kind Memcached`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`operator-sdk create api --group cache --version v1alpha1 --kind Memcached`
```

Press `y` when asked for creating resource and controller. This will scaffold the project and create the files `api/<version>/<kind>_types.go` and `controller/<kind>_types.go`.

For memcached operator project, `api/v1alpha1/memcached_types.go` and `controller/memcached_controller.go` are generated.

```sh
Create Resource [y/n]
y
Create Controller [y/n]
y
Writing scaffold for you to edit...
api/v1alpha1/memcached_types.go
controllers/memcached_controller.go
Running make:
$ make
go: creating new go.mod: module tmp
go: finding sigs.k8s.io v0.2.5
go: finding sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd v0.2.5
go: finding sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/cmd/controller-gen v0.2.5
/Users/admin/go/bin/controller-gen object:headerFile="hack/boilerplate.go.txt" paths="./..."
go fmt ./...
go vet ./...
```

> ### Define Spec and Status

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Migrate API type definitions
```
So this section is a bit more than just defining a spec and status.
If I have existing pkgs and libraries in `pkg/apis/cache/v1aplha1/` I want to copy them over to `api/v1alpha1/`.

So probably add a line about copying over any existing libraries and pkgs over to the new location as well.

Copy over the API spec and status from the SDK project's `pkg/apis/<group>/<version>/<kind>_types.go` to Kubebuilder's `api/<version>/<kind>_types.go`.

In our example, `MemcachedSpec` and `MemcachedStatus` from [`pkg/apis/cache/v1aplha1/memcached_types.go`][memcached_types] are copied to `api/v1alpha1/memcached_types.go`.

```go
type MemcachedSpec struct {
	// Specify size, the number of pods
	Size int32 `json:"size"`
}

type MemcachedStatus struct {
	// Nodes are the names of the memcached pods
	Nodes []string `json:"nodes"`
}
```

### CRD markers

Include any of the CRD generation or validation markers defined for your API type and fields in `api/<version>/<kind>_types.go`.

For `memcached-operator` the following markers present in `pkg/apis/cache/v1aplha1/memcached_types.go` are copied to `api/v1alpha1/memcached_types.go`.

Example:
```Go
// +kubebuilder:subresource:status
// +kubebuilder:resource:path=memcacheds,scope=Namespaced
```

> ### Controller logic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Migrate controller
```

Copy over the `Reconcile()` code and the controller logic from your existing controller at `pkg/controller/<kind>/<kind>_controller.go` to the new controller's reconcile function in Kubebuilder project at `controllers/<kind>_controller.go`.

In our example [`pkg/controller/memcached/memcached_controller.go`][memcached_controller] is copied to `controllers/memcached_controller.go`.

Particularly, note the following changes:

> 1. Update the import paths and names as necessary:

Reviewer 2: If we're just copying over the Reconcile() function code, do we need to update the default imports scaffolded by kubebuilder? Those should already be correct right?
https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/master/example/kb-memcached-operator/memcached_controller.go.tmpl#L17-L32

So perhaps no need for this step.

Reviewer 2: So maybe we just have the steps be:
1) copying over the reconcile function 
2) updating the naming conventions and import aliases in the reconciler code 
3) Copy over any remaining controller pkgs and helpers from `pkg/controller/<kind>` to `controllers/`

	"k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/runtime"
	"k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/types"
	ctrl "sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime"
	"sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/client"
	"sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/controller"
	"sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/controller/controllerutil"
	"sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/handler"
	logf "sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/log"
	"sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/manager"
	"sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/reconcile"
	"sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/source"

	cachev1alpha1 "github.com/example-inc/memcached-operator/api/v1alpha1"
)
```

2. The naming convention of the reconciler struct may differ. For example, in case of memcached operator the reconciler struct in SDK project is mentioned as [`ReconcileMemcached`][sdk_reconcile_struct] whereas in Kubebuilder project it would be `MemcachedReconciler`.

```go
type MemcachedReconciler struct {
	Log    logr.Logger
	Client client.Client
	Scheme *runtime.Scheme
}
```

3. Update the `Reconcile` logic and the related functions in `api/<version>/<kind>_controller.go`.

For example, the reconcile logic in `api/v1alpha1/memcached_controller.go` would look like:

```Go

> func (r *MemcachedReconciler) Reconcile(req ctrl.Request) (ctrl.Result, error) {

Reviewer 2: This example reconciler is probably going more into the user-guide side of things than the actual migration steps, so probably remove this entire reconciler block and instead point to the new example [memcached_controller.go.tmpl](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/master/example/kb-memcached-operator/memcached_controller.go.tmpl#L46-L122) file that was just added.
